doc /  v0.36 (#206)
CoinAlpha/hummingbot-docs: content/strategies/perpetual-market-making.mdx

<br />

`long_profit_taking_spread`

It is the spread above the entry price at which a short position is placed to reduce position.

** Prompt: **

<Prompt
  prompt="At what spread from the entry price do you want to place a short order to reduce position? (Enter 1 for 1%) >>>"
  response=">>> 1"
/>

`short_profit_taking_spread`

It is the spread below the entry price at which a long position is placed to reduce position.

** Prompt: **

<Prompt
  prompt="At what spread from the entry price do you want to place a long order to reduce position? (Enter 1 for 1%) >>>"
  response=">>> 1"
/>

Refer to the example below.

```
position_mode: Hedge
bid_spread: 0.01
ask_spread: 0.01
order_refresh_time: 30
position_management: Profit_taking
long_profit_taking_spread: 0.5%
short_profit_taking_spread: 0.5%

```

A position is immediately opened when an order is filled.

![](/img/open-position.png)

After the position has been opened, it will now create two open orders that will determine if it will close the current open position or open another position.

![](/img/open-orders2.png)

> If by chance, the order for `open long` gets filled, it will now open a long position, and you now have two open orders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If by chance, the order for `open long` gets filled, it will now open a long position, and you now have two open orders to close the positions.
```

![](/img/profit-taking-hedge.png)

The bot will create orders depending on the `long_profit_taking_spread` and `short_profit_taking_spread` that is set. The position will be closed once the orders are filled, depending on the spreads.

![](/img/close-positions.png)

### `Trailing_stop`

> An order would be placed to close the position immediately if the bid book’s top order’s price goes higher than the entry price of a short position or the top order of the ask book goes lower than the entry price of a long position. Trailing would begin if the current price is beyond or equal to the set `ts_activation_spread`. Setting this parameter to zero would start the trailing asap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trailing would begin if the current price is beyond or equal to the set `ts_activation_spread`. Setting this parameter to zero would start the trailing immediately the position is opened.
```

> 
> <Callout
>   type="note"
>   body="`Trailing_stop` can stop-loss immediately when a loss is detected, even when trailing has not begun.
> Unlike `Profit_taking`, take profit feature places a limit order at a profitable price from position entry price, which is determined by the spreads for each take profit side."

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

/>

`ts_activation_spread`

Traders can fill in the price level that triggers the trailing stop. If no activation price is being filled, the activation price will be the position entry price by default.

** Prompt: **

<Prompt
  prompt="At what spread from the position entry price do you want the bot to start trailing? (Enter 1 for 1%) >>>"
  response=">>> 1"
/>

`ts_callback_rate`

> Callback rate determines the price away from peak price when trailing, beyond which a position will be closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Callback rate determines the price away from peak maximum or peak minimum price when trailing, beyond which a long position or short position will be closed respectively.
```

** Prompt: **

<Prompt
  prompt="At what spread away from the trailing peak price do you want positions to remain open before they're closed? (Enter 1 for 1%) >>>"
  response=">>> 1"
/>

`close_position_order_type`

> This feature gives users the option to select the order type for closing positions when using the trailing stop feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature gives users the option to select the order type for closing positions which is used by the trailing stop and/or stop loss features.
```

Trailing began when the `ts_activation_spread` was met, then the position eventually closed because it reached the percentage we set as `ts_callback_rate`.

![](/img/callback-rate.png)

## `stop_loss_spread`

`Stop_loss` works with both `Profit_taking` and `Trailing_stop` features and would only place a stop loss order if loss has reached the limit set by the stop loss spread.

<Prompt
  prompt="At what spread from position entry price do you want to place stop_loss order? (Enter 1 for 1%) >>>"
  response=">>> 1"
/>

### stop_loss_spread with `Profit_taking`

A profit taking order would be placed immediately if the position has no opening loss, otherwise, it would monitor position and place a stop-loss order if loss increases to the set stop-loss spread. If a loss is detected, the `Profit_taking` orders will be canceled, and a stop-loss order will be placed if loss rises to the set stop-loss spread.

Suppose stop-loss spread is set too low and LIMIT order is specified to close the position in an active market. In that case, there's a high probability that the take profit feature would cancel and replace a stop-loss order.

### stop_loss_spread with `Trailing_stop`

> Once a profitable exit price is detected, no stop-loss order should be placed. An exception will be made for cases where the market swings swiftly to an unprofitable price within ticks or if the configured trailing stop parameters are too low.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a profitable exit price is detected, no stop-loss order should be placed. An exception could arise in cases where the market swings swiftly to an unprofitable price within ticks or if the configured trailing stop parameters are too low.
```

> If no exit price has been detected, a stop-loss order will be placed if loss increases to the set stop-loss spread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no exit price has been detected, a stop-loss order will be placed if loss increases to the set stop-loss spread.
![](/img/no-exit-price.png)
```
